#summary Philosophy of the design
#labels Phase-Design

This turn based strategy game is about the era of imperialism where nations fought a war for strategic dominance by all means - of industrial, diplomatic or militaric nature.

You start as monarch of one of many grand nations which all aspire to rule the world. Your country is not yet developed, your military is weak, you don't have friends in the world. But you have a workforce willing to contribute to your success and some cash in the treasure.

What you could do as a young leader is to modernize your country. Educate engineers which develop natural resources for you (like building mines for delivering coal) or build a nationwide transportation-rail-system. Command your workforce to produce higher-valued products from these resources. Then trade these away and make profit. With the new money you can extend your factories, feed a larger work force, trade or explore new resources, feed the people and finally make even more profit. Eliminate inefficiencies wherever they occur in order to maximize this profit.

Now the time has come to invest in your military. Don't wait too long or you might find yourself to be the objective of your neigbours. They will build a military too. But with a strong industrial base, you surely can build a military especially adapted to your needs. In the end the most often sought way to expand your empire will be war. Choose your victim carefully and finally tell your generals to advance. The price will be an even larger empire with even larger industrial base and that in turn will boost your army. The sky is the limit.

However, going to war in a world where there are several other empires the size of your own can also be dangerous. Your neighbours might not like what you do and might form an alliance against you. Be careful. Your diplomats will tell you about these dangers. Either conquer them all, you old warmonger, or act diplomatic, promise enough to some of them to let them ignore your actions or make alliances too. A world full of alliances can make international relations complicated and refreshingly interesting.

With the right decisions, based on the actions of your opponents, with an efficient industrial base, clever diplomatic relations and a strong army, you'll have the best chances to build an empire that shines forever and will have no foe.

Good luck.