#summary First consistent blueprint for armies, battles, ...
#labels Phase-Design

*Critical points*
  * Do we need it that complex?
  * Is morale really adding?
  * Is this balanced?

*Philosophy*
The role of the military in this game is quite large, but not dominant. We should not forget that the game is also about industrial development and diplomacy, not only about war. Therefore battles must be complex and offer diversifaction, but on a simplified level. The battle and army model of Imperialism 1 needs to be extended without making it too complex. Some ideas from other games (like unit promotions) should be incorporated.
The main points here:
  * A strong military needs a strong industrial base for large upkeep
  * It can be either defensively or offensively aligned
  * Battles can take more than a turn, delaying action and allowing reinforcement.
  * Healing is not for free.
  * Battles are carried out on a detailed hex map.

*4 types of units*
  * Infantry units (good in defense and city attack and cheap, not too strong, short distance, slow)
  * Artillery units (distance attack, weak defense, slow)
  * Cavallery units (fast, strong, expensive, weak against cities)
  * Officers (only one per army, increase moral and attack of surrounding units)

*Properties of units*
  * Attack strength (integer number 0-20)
  * Strength (percentage 0-100%)
  * Range (integer number 1-5)
  * Movement (integer number 1-10)
  * Morale (percentage 0-100%)
  * Creating cost ($)
  * Upkeep ($)

*Production of units*
  * Will take a certain time (so you have to plan ahead)
  * Take from soldier pool

*Unit actions*
  * Move and/or attack. Attack ends movement.
  * Defend max two times (artillery doesn't count)

*Terrain influence*
  * Hills, mountains, cities and over a river give (cumulative) a +1 bonus on defense (on the attack value in a defending situation)

*Promotion of units*
  * Veteran (with a certain chance after each kill) attack +2, morale +10

*Specialisation of units*
  * Entrenchment (attack +2 if stationed in this province, if defending, if not moved, only for infantry)
  * City attack (attack +2 if attacking a city, only for infantry)
  * Slow down (only artillery, every attack slows down movement -1 (not cumulative))
  * Blitz (attack +2 on first attack, can attack two times per turn, only cavallery)
  * Fallback(certain chance to withdrawel instead of fighting, can sneak beyond neighoured hostile forces, only cavallery)

*Time of introduction*
  * Militia, Infantry 1, Artillery 1, Cavallery 1 available from 1814 on
  * Infantry 2, Artillery 2, Cavallery 2 available from 1850 on
  * Infantry 3, Artillery 3, Cavallery 3 available from 1880 on

*Officers*
  * No attack, very low defense
  * Base is lieutenant (attack +1, morale +10 for all neighoured units)
  * Promotion to Colonel (attack +1, morale +10 for all with distance up to 3)
  * Promotion to General (attack +2, morale +20 for all with distance up to 5)

*Healing of units*
  * Not for free, costs some money and can come from manpower pool
  * Only if remaining strength after battle >= 30%, otherwise liquidation to manpower pool

*Overview of unit values*

||Property|| *Militia* || *Infantry 1* || *Infantry 2* || *Infantry 3* || *Artillery 1* || *Artillery 2* || *Artillery 3* || *Cavallery 1* || *Cavallery 2* || *Cavallery 3/Tanks* ||
||Attack||6||8||10||12||6||7||8||8||10||14||
||Range||1||1||1||1||3||4||5||1||1||2||
||Movement||3||3||3||4||2||2||3||4||5||5||
||Morale||60||70||80||90||70||70||80||80||90||100||
||Cost||0.5||1||1.5||2.2||1.3||1.8||2.4||1.4||2.2||3.6||
||Upkeep||-||1||1||1.1||1.2||1.2||1.3||1.2||1.2||1.4+oil||

*Battlefield*
  * Hexagon of hex fields with 15 fields diagonal distance, city in the middle

*Time*
  * 3 battle turns per game turn, if not resolved (city not occupied yet) continuation next round or abortion of fight if combat took place

*Damage model*
  * Unit 1 attacks unit 2 with attack values of *a1* and *a2*
  * Strength of units are *s1* and *s2* respectively
  * Damages to both units are *d1* and *d2*
  * Formula: dy = sx `*` ax / ay `*` c +/- delta
  * With constant modifier c ~ 0.5
  * Gaussian random modifier +/- delta (which is adjustable)
  * Damage cannot be higher than strength dx <= sx
  * Damage is calculated and then substracted from strength, also morale is adjusted

*Ships*
  * Fregates are medium sized warships (upgrade once), best for defending or hunting trade ships
  * Trade vessels (upgrade often (two or three times)) with ever increasing cargo size and speed at constant upkeep
  * Warships/ships of the line are for combat, blocking ports, disembarkements

*Possible actions*
  * Guard trade in a certain area (defensive)
  * Interfere trade in a certain area (offensive)
  * Engage enemy fleet (offensive)
  * Block ports (offensive)
  * Secure landing operation (defensive)
  * Default operation: Guard