#summary First consistent blueprint for the industrial model.
#labels Phase-Design

*Worker pool*
All worker (specialized or not) belong to the worker pool. We have the following types:
  * Unskilled workers (can work in factories, every other type can always be reduced to unskilled workers)
  * Skilled workers (can work in factories, work more efficiently)
  * Scientists (work in university, explore the country or techs)
  * Engineers (can improve the country, rails, mines, ...)
  * Trained military (go to military soldier pool, aka reserve)

*Natural resources*
  * Wood, Coal, copper, ore, oil - Heavy industries (tools, weapons, railways)
  * Fish, Grain, Apples - Food
  * Sheep, Cotton - Clothing
  * Silver, Gold - Direct Money

*Production*
  * 2 wood = 1 timber or 1 paper in the paper mill/factory
  * 2 timber = 1 furniture in the furniture factory

  * 1 ore + 1 coal = 1 steel in the steel mill/factory
  * 2 steel = 1 weapon or 1 tool in the tool factory

  * 2 wool or 2 cotton = 1 cloth in the spinning factory
  * 2 cloth = 1 garment in the clothing factory

  * 2 oil = 1 fuel in the rafinery
  * 2 fuel = 1 power in the power plant

  * 2 grains + 1 meat or fish + 1 apple = 1 can of food in the cannery

  * timber + steel = 1 transport (wagon)
  * timber + cloth (+ steel + coal) = ships

*Trade*
  * Wood, ore, coal, wool/cotton (same symbol), oil are basic tradeable resources
  * Timber, furniture, steel, tools, weapons, cloth, garment, paper, fuel, cans of food are advanced tradeable resources

*Education*
  * Paper + unskilled worker = skilled Worker
  * Paper + skilled worker + garment + furniture = expert worker
  * Paper + skilled worker + garment + furniture + tool = scientist or engineer
  * Paper + skilled worker + garment + furniture + weapon = soldier in reserve
  * maybe also money

* Trade flow, Consumption flow*
  * Your people can consume some of the things you produce, they will pay for it. They have a certain demand for paper, furniture, tools, garments and will pay for it. You can sell them a bit more (10-20%) and they will pay you, but less than the ordinary price. They will also buy imports, reducing your market share.
  * They produce more than they consume (otherwise it would be kind of meaningless, wouldn't it), so we can export the excess.
  * For export/trade we should specify the target nations and what amount we want to keep in store for later. The actual transactions are then made in a clever automatic way by the program.
  * If for some reason the global demand for food and luxury items cannot be fullfilled then starvation or reduced productivity will follow.
  * Basically the productivity will increase ever more in the game, giving rise to an ever greater army or other things.