#summary Starting point for the Design specifications.
#labels Phase-Design,Featured

= Vision =

 _Imperialism: the creation and/or maintenance of an unequal economic, cultural, and territorial relationships, usually between states and often in the form of an empire, based on domination and subordination. (Wikipedia)_

From the start page:

The aim of this project is to create a free (open source, OS independent) remake of the classic SSI game Imperialism. While the spirit and many concepts of the original should be preserved it should not become a pure copy but advance the concept in a sense that modern elements of strategic games are included as for example of the Civilization series.

Imperialism was a great game at its time, not only known for its strategic challenge but also for a great ambient sound. However running it on modern OS is difficult. Also some parts of the game design (like the battles) were bugged. That's where this remake starts, providing a free, portable variant of the old Imperialism.

The game is written in Java using Swing for the user interface. The philosophy is to keep it as simple as possible, use standard/well tested libraries wherever possible and to demand clean, understandable code always. 


= Original Imperialism =

  * Design description [DesignImperialism original Imperialism]
  * [DesignImperialismReview Review] of the strengths and shortfalls of the original Imperialism

= Design =

Final *[DesignOfficialSpecification Official Specification]* of this game.

  * [DesignBrainstorming Brainstorming] - collection of cool ideas
  * [DesignPhilosophy Philosophy] of the design
  * [DesignConceptMilitary Military] concept
  * [DesignConceptIndustry Industrial] concept
  * [DesignConceptDiplomacy Diplomacy] concept
  * [DesignTrifles Trifles] and minor issues
  * [DesignGeneralization Generalization] of the game concept